Nambli 1.002 — local visual review candidate
Date: 2026-10-08
State: NOT APPROVED FOR RELEASE

Historical record: superseded by the owner's 1.003 revision on 2026-10-10.
Current sources/ufos now contains 1.003. The exact 1.002 editable sources are
preserved in fonts/candidates/1.002/sources-1.002.zip, with a SHA-256 manifest.
Extract that archive separately and pass --ufo-dir when reproducing 1.002.
The owner rejected the added overshoot and chose selective side-caron changes;
see VISUAL-QUALITY-1.003.txt. The original review remains unchanged.

Owner direction
---------------
Repair rough body outlines and rounded joins across all twelve faces. Pause
diacritic redesign after the owner rejected the thickness experiment. Keep the
original diacritic contours and spacing, and show completed versus deferred work
separately. The rejected experiment is archived outside the candidate tree.

Baseline and scope
------------------
Baseline: approved 1.001 UFO sources at Git commit 0d5deb9, with reference TTFs
in fonts/candidates/1.001/ttf. Historical editable candidate: the 1.002 source ZIP.
Each face retains 998 glyphs and 970 Unicode mappings.

The candidate applies bounded curve fitting, repair of integer-grid tangents,
and small fillets at measured curved joins. Straight-to-straight design corners
are retained. Self-crossings are removed only with boundary and substantial
contour-topology guards. A bounded quantization retry handles residual joins;
it does not relax acceptance criteria or contain glyph-name exceptions.

Selected broad lowercase bowls receive small baseline/x-height overshoots.
The missing-glyph symbol becomes a rounded frame with an X, distinct from O.
These optical adjustments are not a claim that all possible overshoot decisions
have been completed for every Unicode character.

Standalone marks, spacing accents, connected accent glyphs, uncertain accent
decompositions, and the accented DZ digraphs remain entirely unchanged. Where
the accent and letter body are separable, only the body is repaired and the
original accent contours are retained exactly. Dots belonging to ordinary i/j
letterforms are not a diacritic weight redesign.
Baseline overshoot is withheld beside preserved below-marks to retain their
original clearance. Exact removal of constant segments precedes curve-join
checks so redundant zero-length segments cannot conceal a cusp. A bounded
local curve merge removes the small ExtraBoldItalic OE facet.

Reproduction
------------
Install requirements.txt in a suitable Python environment. From this repository:

python sources/build_fontmake.py --output build-visual-review --reference-fonts fonts/candidates/1.002/ttf --verify-reproducible
python sources/validate_visual_candidate.py --before fonts/candidates/1.001/ttf --after build-visual-review --reports documentation/visual-quality-1.002/preparation --output build-visual-review/visual-validation.json
python sources/audit_visual_quality.py --fonts build-visual-review --output build-visual-review/edge-audit
python -m unittest discover -s sources -p test_smooth_contours.py
python -m unittest discover -s sources -p test_finalize_visual_outlines.py
python -m unittest discover -s sources -p test_audit_visual_quality.py
python -m unittest discover -s sources -p test_refine_optical_details.py

The authoritative deliverable is the editable UFO set and its verified build.
prepare_visual_quality.py also records the transformation sequence from a
separate baseline UFO directory. Its input and output must differ. The pipeline
does not publish, deploy, tag, or alter the released files.

Review and evidence
-------------------
Open review/visual-quality-1.002/Nambli-Visual-Quality-Review.html in a browser.
The Done and Remaining tabs separate repaired letter bodies from deferred
diacritics. A letter with a repaired body and unchanged accent appears in both,
with an explicit explanation. All twelve faces have before/after and overlay
views, Unicode/name search, zoom, and real-font text samples.

Machine reports are saved in documentation/visual-quality-1.002. Read their
actual statuses and counts; no visual approval is inferred from a passing
build. SVG paths in the review are extracted from compiled candidate TTFs.

Audit limitations
-----------------
The independent audit checks every glyph and contour, including unencoded
alternates. Its flags are candidate review locations, not a count of visible
defects. Intentional corners, natural S-curves, retained accents, and integer
quantization may be flagged. The finalizer's tighter curved-join criterion and
the independent audit use different measurements; their raw counts cannot be
substituted for one another. Automated checks cannot prove optical perfection.

No official Google Fonts QA pass, curatorial acceptance, new release, website
deployment, or user approval of 1.002 is claimed. The closed Google Fonts PR
remains closed. The published 1.000 files are untouched.
